---
layout: post
title: 'Autofiction'
category: thinkpieces
---

To become an intellectual, [writes Paul J. Griffiths](https://www.firstthings.com/article/2018/05/letter-to-an-aspiring-intellectual), "the first requirement is that you find something to think about, [something] that seems to have complexity sufficient for long work, sufficient to yield multifaceted and refractory results when held up to thought’s light as jewelers hold gemstones up to their loupes. And then, don’t stop thinking about it." I've heard poetry described the same way: something you just keep turning over in your head. 

I'm not going to lie, poetry and philosophy do not exactly consume me in this way (math, music, science, and religion even less so). I love what's extraordinary from the fields, what I can grasp and what I'm exposed to, but there aren't many questions I return to like a dog to a bone, at least, not yet. If there's an exception, though, it's metafiction. I'm fascinated by fiction generally and specifically fiction that interacts with real life in unusual ways, like constrained or automatic writing, conspiracy theories, YouTube hoaxes, fictionalized journals, et cetera. My justification for being a poetry student (at least until next month) is that the best conversations we can have about the stories we tell each other rely on associative, allegorical language. The poetry I love is involved with both storytelling _and_ cultural criticism: that's certainly true of C.D. Wright's "Op-Ed" and Adrienne Rich's "Dream of a Common Language."

Anyway, I'm not as knowledgeable about fiction as I would like but I'm working on it. I haven't read _The Invention of Ana_ yet, but I was interested in this quote from a [BOMB interview](https://bombmagazine.org/articles/mikkel-rosengaard/) with its author, Mikkel Rosengaard:

#### MR: "I was most surprised by all the praise [_The Invention of Ana_] received in Scandinavia. Ever since _My Struggle_ came out in 2009, Scandinavian literature has been obsessed with autofiction and the idea of writing a more authentic and less manipulative novel. With _The Invention of Ana_, I wanted to do the opposite, to write an anti-autofiction novel. Autofiction and that whole idea of an "honest narrative" is a conceptual dead end. Writers like Karl Ove Knausgaard and Rachel Cusk argue that we are drowning in fiction, that we are suffocated by manipulative stories. And I get it, we obviously are. From the moment we wake up, we are marinating in news stories, social media, ad campaigns, Netflix shows. We live lives submerged in fiction. I understand the disgust, the frustration with all of these manipulative stories attacking us from all sides, but I find it deeply nostalgic and reactionary to think that we can go back to a more authentic and honest mode of storytelling. None of this is going away. If we want the novel to remain relevant in fifteen years, we have to co-opt and engage with fabricated and manipulative storytelling, especially if we want to reach more readers who don't have writing degrees."

"An 'honest narrative' is a conceptual dead end." 