---
layout: post
title: One More Thought
category: thinkpieces
---

I've been thinking more about my comments about Poetry Twitter in relation to [this BBC article](http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20180416-the-myth-of-the-online-echo-chamber), which states that fears of online echo chambers are vastly overblown and that most people are actually exposed to a variety of sources just by being online.  When I described Poetry Twitter as an echo chamber, I short-shrifted the variety of voices. There are many, many poets on Twitter and I don't want to generalize them. 

However, I still feel that the 280 character limit flatters no poet, and that daily interaction with social media is not a healthy expectation, least of all writers. My initial attraction to books, like most people, was escapist in nature. I was moved by the idea that writers could live odd, lonely lives and still affect strangers. That there are fewer and fewer strangers-- fewer poets whose brains you can't livestream-- seems to me a loss. If a community has been gained in exchange, it does not seem like a radically open place where everyone comes to listen to each other. To my mind, a writer tweeting is like someone trying to figure out how deep a well is by throwing handfuls of rice _and_ gold coins into it. Not a terrible thing, but a little wasteful. In the words of C.D. Wright, 

#### "Truthfulness is crucial. A continuous self-criticism is demanded of the effort without which only non-art gets made, that is, manufactured."

Logging on to social media to do work, whether it is searching for a journal with an upcoming contest or retweeting a friend's book promotion, seems antithetical to the very premise of writing as a calling, wherein language is thoughtfully considered rather than thoughtlessly dispensed. 

Which is all to say, if you like to do it, if you feel the people you interact with on Twitter are your friends, then I wish you the best in all seriousness. If, however, it feels unnatural to market yourself online as a writer, then please don't (and don't advise your students to do it). The more of us sleepers out there, the better.