---
layout: post
title: Avicii
category: thinkpieces

---

[_Swedish DJ Avicii Dead at 28_](https://www.billboard.com/articles/news/dance/8358389/avicii-dead-tim-bergling)

#### "And I don't want to stop typing, because I'll be left with that creepy feeling again. The exact opposite of how I felt when I heard "Wake Me Up" come out of the speakers for the very first time. It's hard to have a hit, but it's even harder to create a track you only have to hear once to get, that you've got to hear incessantly, over and over again, until it's so embedded in your brain you can play it to yourself."

[full email from Bob Lefsetz]({{"/assets/bob_avicii.rtf" | absolute_url}})

When I was in high school Avicii was mainstream, a bridge between the girls that drank Bacardi and me. I remember listening to "Wake Me Up" on my iPod, on the radio, and while running laps during field hockey practice. I was still listening in 2013 when he dropped "Hey Brother," which streamed on pop radio for months. 

_Hey brother! There's an endless road to rediscover_<br>
_Hey sister! Know the water's sweet but blood is thicker_<br>
_Oh, if the sky comes falling down, for you_<br>
_There's nothing in this world I wouldn't do_<br>

Avicii made dance music, not rave music, for partying day-drunk on the beach. Music for the radio, not the internet, music for every high school clique (remember Claire's emo rave bracelets?). Avicii's songs precluded any less than wholesome feelings. There was nothing self-destructive about Avicii's music, no hint of the melancholy endemic to its generation. 

So I'm not sure if I agree with Bob's take that drugs and self-destructive urges in general are still perceived as "cool." I don't think many thought Prince ODing was "cool." It's hard to watch people who put nothing but positivity into the world die prematurely, alone. Even if some bring it upon themselves directly or indirectly, it's not the case that today's young people stupidly mistreat their bodies, thinking themselves above death, at least not more than any other generation. You wouldn't know it from watching Coachella coverage, but people in their twenties are acutely aware of their mental and physical health as a consequence of the insurance game: what should I "get done" now, before I leave X gig? How many free therapy appointments do I have left? Avicii himself retired from touring two years ago due to health complications. It didn't seem like his goal to die like a rock star. The alternative to self-medicating often isn't non-medicating but being medicated by someone else, and with less fun drugs, and even then there are no guarantees. 

I'll defer to @kanyewest: [everything you do in life stems from either fear or love](https://twitter.com/kanyewest/status/986316732905283584). 