---
layout: post
title:  Some PDFs
categories: picks
---

I really enjoyed [this essay](/assets/pdfessay.pdf) in _Full Stop_ on PDFs, "stable carriers of content and form." I know I'm done writing when I convert a piece to PDF. Whatever text I unceremoniously barfed into a word processor becomes a "page image," a descendent of the Book. I don't trust any journal that requires work to be submitted in .docx, I mean come on! Are you really going to make changes to my document? Also, Word costs like $130!! 

Relatedly I'm interested in the possibilities and limitations of .mobi and .epub formats as they relate to page image. These formats do the lineated poem no favors, but boy do they make reading prose a joy. If physical books of poetry are ruggedly individual, design choices based on best presenting the poems, what happens when the book is stripped to the text?

In other news, I discovered [P-Queue](http://www.p-queue.org/) yesterday, the possibly-defunct journal of the Buffalo Poetics Program. Who are all these people? Where did they go? [Here's issue 8](/assets/P-Queue Volume 8.pdf). I especially liked the Brad Flis poems on pages 111 and 114, here's the first one:

### from _Other Powers_

the Japanese people are not alone<br>
no one gets to walk or eat alone<br>
no one gets any attention<br>
except you for whom i advertise<br>
<br>
a pool of matched need<br>
that wets our pants when we are thinking<br>
that pants themselves are the central tenet<br>
rubbing up against too many angry teens<br>
<br>
and yet, this choice Republican dances<br>
to the table filled with plantains<br>
missing the point about thinking<br>
about pants. At the second-hand store<br>
<br>
after taking off my pants in a vortex of shit<br>
I did feel the need to donate a little more<br>
I did have a dream about a nuclear winter<br>
jk, i love you and want to try more things<br>