---
layout: post
title: The Perfect Mommy
categories: books
---

I read _The Perfect Nanny_ by Leila Slimani this week while attending my sister's college graduation. It turned out to be the perfect read for the hours of patronizing neoliberal speeches. At one point the graduates were literally encouraged to "profit from each other." Insidious agents, all of them... suffice it to say I was in the mood to read about an unspeakable crime.

_The Perfect Nanny_ is a more nuanced book than I was expecting. It tells a pulpy story but it has literary intentions, though thankfully it doesn't bite off more than it can chew.

>Although she loves Paul, her husband's body is weighed down by memories. When he penetrates her, it is her motherly womb that he enters, her heavy belly, where Paul's sperm has so often been accomodated. Her belly of folds and waves, where they built their house, where so many worries and joys flowered. Paul has massaged her swollen, purple legs. He has seen the blood spread over the sheets. Paul has held her hair back from her forehead while she's vomited, on her knees. He has heard her scream. He has wiped the sweat from her face covered with angiomas while she pushed. 

I was surprised when I googled the book, as I sometimes do when I don't know what to think, to come across [this review](https://www.npr.org/2018/01/22/579673595/the-perfect-nanny-is-the-working-mothers-murderous-nightmare).

>The irony is that for all its exquisite craft, the takeaway of _The Perfect Nanny_ is pretty much the same as the message of those movies, as well as of that 1992 cinematic cultural touchstone _The Hand That Rocks The Cradle_, as well as of _Mildred Pierce_. Namely: Stay home, Mom.

Now, I've neither read nor seen  _Mildred Pierce_. I trust the writer when she says the message is working moms = bad. But I didn't have that reading of _The Perfect Nanny_. The takeaway seemed to me that the childcare system under capitalism is to its core rotten and wrong. Everyone tries to make the best decision and some get lucky. If you don't, the consequences can be unthinkable. 

Importantly, the nanny makes herself indispensable to the household by cleaning and cooking in addition to her caretaking jobs. With the household truly in order Myriam, the children's mother, is free to pursue work as a lawyer, which she loves, and to enjoy a social life. Slimani does not paint these things as guilty pleasures, but as necessities. Without them Myriam would lose her mind.

The murderous nanny is from the outset a little weird. But not so weird she didn't receive a glowing review from a former employer. Not so weird she didn't outperform the other nannies the family interviewed. There is nothing negligent or careless about Myriam's behavior. Isn't that what makes the story so terrifying? That Myriam, her husband, and the children could have been anyone. The fact that something horrible could happen speaks not to some defect on the mother's part, but to a deep sickness in the system on the whole. 

To read the takeaway of the book as "stay home, Mom" is to miss how much of the characters' lives is determined by factors outside of their control. Suspicion and hatred of immigrants run parallel to more intimate paranoias. Staying home might have saved Myriam's children, but what about everyone else's children? As Paul, the children's father, notes, having a family under capitalism shrinks your world, makes you an individualist, and everyone suffers.

To emphasize this fact, Slimani spends more time than strictly necessary profiling the landlord of the apartment where the murderess lived. He's a slimy character and it's hard not to hate him as much as the nanny hates him for barging into her apartment, searching for reasons to keep security deposits, demanding rent. The killing nanny and the landlord are two faces of evil, almost equally grotesque. Myriam's efforts, like barring her children from watching the news, are tragically futile. But what the hell else could she do? 