{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red9\green80\blue208;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c41176\c85098;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Subject: Avicii\
04/20/2018 9:55PM\
\
I am the only one fucked up about this?\
\
I was at a doctor's appointment and when I got out my phone was blowing up. Put me in a bad mood, ruined my whole day.\
\
Death is final. What about this do young people not understand?\
\
I'm not sure what happened here. But I'm thinking it's drugs, it's always drugs, especially when it comes out of the blue. Sure, Avicii spoke of health problems before, they caused him to retire from the road, but what was he doing in Oman anyway.\
\
But he's gone now, we'll get no answers, what went through his head, he's just another casualty on the music road. But at 28? THAT'S CRIMINAL!\
\
Now this is having the wrong tone. Funny how between your brain and your fingers your thoughts change.\
\
But why does this have to happen? Why are drugs glorified by the music set? Is that what makes you a rebel, doing drugs?\
\
And I know sometimes they're used to deal with the lifestyle, but how come the handlers don't acknowledge this. But the truth is musicians are like racehorses, run into the ground, shot when they're broken, sometimes by themselves. They're not seen as people.\
\
Life is short, but in truth it's really long. And it's not a constant upward arc. Nobody's on top forever. The key is to adjust and to live.\
\
And sure, taking a break can sometimes mean you're passed over.\
\
But at least you get a chance to come back.\
\
I always think about what Joe Walsh said, that the challenge is LIVING!\
\
So it's kinda like school shootings. Everyone laments the deceased's passing, talks about what a wonderful person they were, how great their music was, and then it's business as usual.\
\
Meanwhile, what kind of outlaw ties up with corporations, doing sponsorships? If it's about image, your credibility is immediately shot.\
\
So we never get to hear another Avicii song. Oh, they'll plumb the archives, come up with something, hell, Jimi Hendrix just made a new record. But imagine what Jimi Hendrix would be playing today.\
\
Then again, the longer you live the less of a legend you are. You're revealed to be normal, with foibles.\
\
But ain't that the truth, how we're all equal under the skin, normal?\
\
And I don't want to stop typing, because I'll be left with that creepy feeling again. The exact opposite of how I felt when I heard "Wake Me Up" come out of the speakers for the very first time. It's hard to have a hit, but it's even harder to create a track you only have to hear once to get, that you've got to hear incessantly, over and over again, until it's so embedded in your brain you can play it to yourself. That's what Avicii achieved.\
\
And there will be more hits. Time marches on. That's what the dead don't realize, no one is that important, everyone is superseded, time doesn't stop.\
\
It's bad enough when people are ill, get cancer...but when you mistreat yourself...\
\
Like all the people still smoking. Why do you think you're the exception? You're gonna get old and wanna live but you won't. And your spouse and your children will be so disappointed when you're gone.\
\
I didn't even know Avicii and I'm disappointed when he's gone.\
\
And they must reveal the cause of death for all these people who die before their time, although it will come out, it almost always does. We demand it as human beings. Life is a struggle under the best of circumstances, we want answers, explanations, guidance, we don't want to think we can just go along minding our business and have it all end.\
\
But it can. In an automobile accident. Or maybe your time is up, like that woman sucked out of that Southwest plane.\
\
Tom Petty O.D.'ed. As did Prince. And they might not have had hits recently, but if you saw them perform they were still at the top of their game.\
\
And Bonzo killed Led Zeppelin with his death.\
\
And I'm not saying everybody can stand up and fly straight.\
\
But the truth is the body is quite resilient. It takes a lot to kill yourself.\
\
Drugs are not cool. No matter what you say.\
\
It's uncool to say that, but all my best highs have been natural, when I'm fully aware and can experience the excellence.\
\
I know, I know, I should be lauding Tim Bergling, talk about how wonderful he was.\
\
But the truth is I'm still here and he's not. And I'm off-kilter, I've got this horrible feeling inside.\
\
AND I DON'T LIKE IT!\
\
\
-- \
Visit the archive: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://lefsetz.com/wordpress/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://lefsetz.com/wordpress/}} \
--\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.twitter.com/lefsetz"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.twitter.com/lefsetz}}\
--\
If you would like to subscribe to the LefsetzLetter, \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.lefsetz.com/lists/?p=subscribe&id=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.lefsetz.com/lists/?p=subscribe&id=1}}}